
# Debugging code - Introductions

> Programming today is a race between software engineers striving to build bigger and better idiot-proof programs, and the Universe trying to produce bigger and better idiots. So far, the Universe is winning.

> **Rick Cook**

> Everyone knows that debugging is twice as hard as writing a program in the first place. So if you’re as clever as you can be when you write it, how will you ever debug it?

>**Brian Kernighan**

> If debugging is the process of removing software bugs, then programming must be the process of putting them in.

>**Edsger Dijkstra**

>I realized that a large part of my life from then on was going to be spent in finding mistakes in my own programs.

>**Maurice Wilkes**

## Avoiding bugs

> Always code as if the guy who ends up maintaining your code will be a violent psychopath who knows where you live.

> **Martin Golding**

Best advice in debugging is to avoid making bugs in the first place. 


### Write your code with testing and debugging in mind.



```python

```

### We all write buggy code. Accept it. Deal with it.


```python

```

### Write your code with testing and debugging in mind.


```python

```

### Keep It Simple, Stupid (KISS).


```python

```

### What is the simplest thing that could possibly work?


```python

```

### Don’t Repeat Yourself (DRY)


```python

```

#### Every piece of knowledge must have a single, unambiguous, authoritative representation within a system.


```python

```

#### Constants, algorithms, etc…


```python

```


```python

```

### Try to limit interdependencies of your code. (Loose Coupling)


```python

```

### Give your variables, functions and modules meaningful names (not mathematics names)


```python

```

## Use static code analyser's


```python
- pylint
- pychecker
- pyflakes
- flake8
```


```python

```


```python

```
