
# Lambda
---

The lambda operator or lambda function is a way to create small **anonymous functions**, i.e. functions without a name. These functions are throw-away functions, i.e. they are just needed where they have been created. Lambda functions are mainly used in combination with the functions filter(), map() and reduce(). The lambda feature was added to Python due to the demand from Lisp programmers.

The general syntax of a lambda function is quite simple:

`lambda argument_list: expression`

The argument list consists of a comma separated list of arguments and the expression is an arithmetic expression using these arguments. You can assign the function to a variable to give it a name.
The following example of a lambda function returns the sum of its two arguments: 


```python
total = lambda x, y: x + y
```


```python
print(total(1, 1))
print(total(1, 11))
```

    2
    12



```python
print(total, dir(total))
```

    <function <lambda> at 0x106f947a0> ['__annotations__', '__call__', '__class__', '__closure__', '__code__', '__defaults__', '__delattr__', '__dict__', '__dir__', '__doc__', '__eq__', '__format__', '__ge__', '__get__', '__getattribute__', '__globals__', '__gt__', '__hash__', '__init__', '__init_subclass__', '__kwdefaults__', '__le__', '__lt__', '__module__', '__name__', '__ne__', '__new__', '__qualname__', '__reduce__', '__reduce_ex__', '__repr__', '__setattr__', '__sizeof__', '__str__', '__subclasshook__']



```python
power = lambda x, y: x ** y

print(power(2, 1))
print(power(2, 11))
```

    2
    2048


## Use of Lambda Function

We use lambda functions when we require a nameless function for a short period of time.

In Python, we generally use it as an argument to a higher-order function (a function that takes in other functions as arguments). Lambda functions are used along with built-in functions like `filter()`, `map()` etc.

## The `map()` Function
----
Please find details in functional programming
